docs/source/connection.rst, before:

************************
Connection to a peer
************************

In order to be part of the network, you need to be connected to other people (peers). The underlying protocol for finding peers was taken from App-To-App Communicator <https://github.com/Tribler/app-to-app-communicator>. This protocol enables a peer to discover more peers through peers they are already connected with. By default firewalls will block incoming connections from unknown sources. The protocol makes use of `UDP hole punching <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UDP_hole_punching>`_ to circumvent this and setup direct connections between peers. Basically this uses a mutual friend to initiate a connection between two peers who are unknown to each other.

The protocol consists of the following messages:
- IntroductionRequest - Request for an introduction to some new peer.
- IntroductionResponse - Response with a new peer that could be connected to.
- PunctureRequest - Request to send a puncture to some peer.
- Puncture - A basically empty message, used to punch a hole in the NAT/firewall of the sender.

When a peer initially starts up the app, it needs to find other peers to connect to. For this initial peer discovery a bootstrap server is used. This bootstrap server resides on a fixed IP and introduces new peers to each other when they initially connect to the network.

The following steps explain how a typical introduction goes down:

1.	Peer A knows of some peer B and asks for a new connection to be setup.
2.	Upon connection peer B chooses a peer from its active connections, peer C, and sends the address of peer C to peer A as an introduction response message.
3.	Peer B sends peer C a puncture request for peer A.
4.	Peer C sends a puncture message to peer A to punch a hole in its own NAT/firewall, allowing the incoming connection from peer A.

.. figure:: ./images/intro_puncture_req.png
   :width: 300px
   :alt: Fig. 1. How a connection is setup between peers.

Connections overview
====================
After starting the app and choosing a username a screen is shown with an overview of all current connections. The screens is divided into two columns. The left column shows peers which are actively connected with you. The right screen shows peers, which you have heard about, but have yet to respond to you. They have been introduced to you through the IntroductionRequest message.

In order to prevent sending messages indefinitely to peers who aren't responding peers can time-out, the boostrap server will never time-out. Every five seconds a message is send to a random peer in either list asking for more peers. If no messages were received from a peer for 25 seconds the connection is deemed to be lost and the peer will be removed from the list. A new introduction would have to take place to reconnect to the peer.

For each peer the following information is displayed and updated every second:

Status light
 - green when a message was received in the last 15 seconds
 - orange when peer is new, but hasn't responded yet
 - red when no message was received in the last 15 seconds, a strong indicator that the connection is lost

Username
The username the peer chose when first starting the app

Connection indicator 
Information about the type of connection, e.g. WiFi or mobile. In case the peer is set as a bootstrap server next to the username the word "Server" is displayed

Ip address
The public ip address of the peer, plus the port of the connection

Last received and sent
In the bottom row two timers can be found indicating the time since the last message was received from and when the last message was sent to the peer.

Received and sent indicators
The UI shows when messages are send to a peer by displaying an orange bar below the status 'light' of the peer. A blue bar is shown when a message is received from the peer.

Background handling of peers
============================
All operation that are done on peers are done through or make use of the `PeerHandler class <TODO_add_link>`_. This class holds an arraylist of peers currently known and can split these peers into two lists of active peers and new peers. Peers are kept in memory for now, so each time the app is closed all peers have to be rediscovered through the bootstrap server.

There are two ways the host can hear about new peers:
- When a message is received, the sending peer becomes known
- An introductionResponse message, which contains a list of peers that the sending peer is connected with

Note that in the latter case a puncture request is still only sent to one peer (the invitee). 

Each time a peer is 'introduced' through either method the ``getOrMakePeer`` function of the PeerHandler is called. This function does one of four things:
- The peer is already known, so the object associated with this known peer is returned
- The peer is already known based on its id, but with a different InetAddress, the associated object is updated and returned
- The peer is already known based on its address, but with a different id, the associated object is updated and returned
- The peer is unknown, a new Peer object is created, added to the PeerList and returned

This way a host keeps track of all peers that ever interacted with them and keeps the information up-to-date.

For each peer the following information is stored:
 - address - the InetSocketAddress where this peer can be reached
 - peerId - the identifier of this peer
// -  int connectionType;
// -  String networkOperator;
 - lastSendTime - the last time a message was send to this peer
 - the - lastReceiveTime last time a message was received from this peer
 - long creationTime - the time this peer was first introduced to this host

Every second the peer list is checked for dead peers. Dead peers are peers from which no message was received in the last 25 seconds. These dead peers are removed from the peerlist.


Background handling of messages
===============================
Since all messages are created using protocolbuffers, it is easy to rebuild them on reception. When a message is received, the message type is checked and the appropriate functions are called to further handle the message. Messages not build with (the correct) protocolbuffers will simply be discarded.


Networking classes and their responsibilities
=============================================
There are two main classes which have to do with networking. `Network <TODO_add_link>`_ and `OverviewConnectionsActivity <TODO_add_link>`_.

The Network class is a singleton class and is responsible for sending and receiving messages. It has a datagram channel which has a socket bound to a local port (default 1873). Through this channel messages are send and received to and from peers. The network class has methods to build the different messages of the protocol.

The OverviewConnectionsActivity class is responsible for handling the messages after they have been deserialized. Furthermore it updates the information in the UI based on the messages it receives. This includes adding and removing peers and updating the connection information.

Commit message:

implemented heartbeat timer, introduction requests are now send to all connected peers every 5 seconds instead of one random

docs/source/connection.rst, after:

************************
Connection to a peer
************************

In order to be part of the network, you need to be connected to other people (peers). The underlying protocol for finding peers was taken from App-To-App Communicator <https://github.com/Tribler/app-to-app-communicator>. This protocol enables a peer to discover more peers through peers they are already connected with. By default firewalls will block incoming connections from unknown sources. The protocol makes use of `UDP hole punching <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/UDP_hole_punching>`_ to circumvent this and setup direct connections between peers. Basically this uses a mutual friend to initiate a connection between two peers who are unknown to each other.

The protocol consists of the following messages:
- IntroductionRequest - Request for an introduction to some new peer.
- IntroductionResponse - Response with a new peer that could be connected to.
- PunctureRequest - Request to send a puncture to some peer.
- Puncture - A basically empty message, used to punch a hole in the NAT/firewall of the sender.

When a peer initially starts up the app, it needs to find other peers to connect to. For this initial peer discovery a bootstrap server is used. This bootstrap server resides on a fixed IP and introduces new peers to each other when they initially connect to the network.

The following steps explain how a typical introduction goes down:

1.	Peer A knows of some peer B and asks for a new connection to be setup.
2.	Upon connection peer B chooses a peer from its active connections, peer C, and sends the address of peer C to peer A as an introduction response message.
3.	Peer B sends peer C a puncture request for peer A.
4.	Peer C sends a puncture message to peer A to punch a hole in its own NAT/firewall, allowing the incoming connection from peer A.

.. figure:: ./images/intro_puncture_req.png
   :width: 300px
   :alt: Fig. 1. How a connection is setup between peers.

Connections overview
====================
After starting the app and choosing a username a screen is shown with an overview of all current connections. The screens is divided into two columns. The left column shows peers which are actively connected with you. The right screen shows peers, which you have heard about, but have yet to respond to you. They have been introduced to you through the IntroductionRequest message.

In order to prevent sending messages indefinitely to peers who aren't responding peers can time-out, the bootstrap server will never time-out. Every five seconds a message is send to all connected peers asking for an introduction to more peers. This acts as a heartbeat timer keeping track of which peers are still alive. If no messages were received from a peer for 25 seconds the connection is deemed to be lost and the peer will be removed from the list. A new introduction would have to take place to reconnect to the peer.

For each peer the following information is displayed and updated every second:

Status light
 - green when a message was received in the last 15 seconds
 - orange when peer is new, but hasn't responded yet
 - red when no message was received in the last 15 seconds, a strong indicator that the connection is lost

Username
The username the peer chose when first starting the app

Connection indicator 
Information about the type of connection, e.g. WiFi or mobile. In case the peer is set as a bootstrap server next to the username the word "Server" is displayed

Ip address
The public ip address of the peer, plus the port of the connection

Last received and sent
In the bottom row two timers can be found indicating the time since the last message was received from and when the last message was sent to the peer.

Received and sent indicators
The UI shows when messages are send to a peer by displaying an orange bar below the status 'light' of the peer. A blue bar is shown when a message is received from the peer.

Background handling of peers
============================
All operation that are done on peers are done through or make use of the `PeerHandler class <TODO_add_link>`_. This class holds an arraylist of peers currently known and can split these peers into two lists of active peers and new peers. Peers are kept in memory for now, so each time the app is closed all peers have to be rediscovered through the bootstrap server.

There are two ways the host can hear about new peers:
- When a message is received, the sending peer becomes known
- An introductionResponse message, which contains a list of peers that the sending peer is connected with

Note that in the latter case a puncture request is still only sent to one peer (the invitee). 

Each time a peer is 'introduced' through either method the ``getOrMakePeer`` function of the PeerHandler is called. This function does one of four things:
- The peer is already known, so the object associated with this known peer is returned
- The peer is already known based on its id, but with a different InetAddress, the associated object is updated and returned
- The peer is already known based on its address, but with a different id, the associated object is updated and returned
- The peer is unknown, a new Peer object is created, added to the PeerList and returned

This way a host keeps track of all peers that ever interacted with them and keeps the information up-to-date.

For each peer the following information is stored:
 - address - the InetSocketAddress where this peer can be reached
 - peerId - the identifier of this peer
// -  int connectionType;
// -  String networkOperator;
 - lastSendTime - the last time a message was send to this peer
 - the - lastReceiveTime last time a message was received from this peer
 - long creationTime - the time this peer was first introduced to this host

Every second the peer list is checked for dead peers. Dead peers are peers from which no message was received in the last 25 seconds. These dead peers are removed from the peerlist.


Background handling of messages
===============================
Since all messages are created using protocolbuffers, it is easy to rebuild them on reception. When a message is received, the message type is checked and the appropriate functions are called to further handle the message. Messages not build with (the correct) protocolbuffers will simply be discarded.


Networking classes and their responsibilities
=============================================
There are two main classes which have to do with networking. `Network <TODO_add_link>`_ and `OverviewConnectionsActivity <TODO_add_link>`_.

The Network class is a singleton class and is responsible for sending and receiving messages. It has a datagram channel which has a socket bound to a local port (default 1873). Through this channel messages are send and received to and from peers. The network class has methods to build the different messages of the protocol.

The OverviewConnectionsActivity class is responsible for handling the messages after they have been deserialized. Furthermore it updates the information in the UI based on the messages it receives. This includes adding and removing peers and updating the connection information.
